---
title: "Finding Content"
date: "2021-06-28"
---

### There is no free lunch in the search for wonder

I have written before of how the internet has caused people to believe that finding true information is trivially easy, and how this is a sort of trick. It actually does make finding (certain types of) things that you are looking very easy. Google is great, and the search function on most websites is at least adequate. BUT, it doesn't make it easy to search for things that you aren't looking for, or for things you don't know that you are looking for.

We are living at the absolute height of culture in many ways. You can listen to more music, watch more tv/film, read more, and even experience different parts of the world easier than ever before. I think the quality has risen over time too, not just the amount. At the same time, our access to content is a step function making giant leaps at small intervals. There is no longer actual distance between an indivdual and culture. This doesn't mean that finding truly quality content is easy however, and I want to outline a few reasons for this and maybe what one can do about it.

One issue is that the cacophany of culture currently blaring throughout the world creates a signal/noise issue. There are songs out there right now that would make living valuable in a way that it wasn't previously for you. But, for every such song there are 10,000 more that are somewhere on the scale of mundane to just very good.

There are many services that are supposed to solve this problem for you, and that do to some small degree, but don't completely close the gap. There are the classic services like radio, record studios, etc. where the model is that 'experts' are there to find the best music for you. The issues with this model are that they are cultivating songs for the average listener or some niche but still large group of listeners not you personally, and that they aren't often really experts to begin with at all. A newer type is the crowd sourcing model, where large internet based services either have fans rate and share music, or an algorithm find music for you based on what previous crowds enjoyed. An issue here is that it siloes you into finding music that you liked before, not music that you will like in the future.

It is similar for news media. There are many large media companies that are supposed to organize important stories and cultural commentary for you. This is like the old model of radio and record studios. The writers these news organizations have writing are often three steps behind where the bleeding edge of the culture actually is, or they may not even be looking for the edge of the culutre at all. In the area of culutral commentary especially, there are all types of perverse incentives that in the end mean that what you read, in say the NYT, is often over processed thought meant to be palatable to people without much culture to begin with.

To find the bleeding edge of culutre, you must go there and see it for yourself. This often means that the signal/noise ratio will increase. In fact, it might not even be just noise you are finding, but instead sort of anti-signal. The truth is that finding the best content often means wading through muck. It means having patience. It means putting up with content that is offensive to the senses and the intellect. It means finding quality in what some call "low-culture." It means finding quality hidden by pretentiousness in "high-culutre." It means taking responsibility for yourself and owning your values. It means finding enlightment and beauty. It means failure and it means success.

Thankfully, this all implies that individuals still have the ability to shape culture and that it isn't just record execs, newspaper editors, and algorithms.

More than 'culture' though, I find that this is true in my professional life. Many mathematicians speak reverently about certain books, usually introductory to large topics such as the famous 'Rudin,' amalgamating the 'important' parts of the subject for you. There are also journals that act like newspapers or radio stations. But, these only can go so far in pointing you to the actual frontier of mathematics. Some journal articles might just be showing you what has already been accomplished, or pointing you in a direction of research that is actually a dead end. THe only way to find out is to attempt to walk down the corridor and see. For me, why this matters, is that I hope to get out of the rut of thinking that some book is going to give me all the answers. Like the idea that knowing everything in Dummit and Foote, will give me direction. Its a good start but it won't. Once again, we must look in the difficult places. In mathematics, this area is just called 'doing math.'
